ZIPCLOAK(1)                                                        ZIPCLOAK(1)

NAME
       zipcloak - encrypt entries in a zipfile (v3.1)

SYNOPSIS
       zipcloak [-d] [-b path] [-Ofile] [-Yem] [-h] [-v] [-L] zipfile

ARGUMENTS
       zipfile  Zipfile to encrypt entries in

OPTIONS
       -b path
       --temp-path path
              Use the directory given by path for the temporary zip file.

       -d
       --decrypt
              Decrypt encrypted entries (copy if given wrong password).

       -h
       --help
              Show a short help.

       -L
       --license
              Show software license.

       -O path
       --output-file zipfile
              Write output to new archive zipfile, leaving original archive as
              is.

       -q
       --quiet
              Quiet operation.  Suppresses some informational messages.

       -v
       --version
              Show version information.

       -Y em
       --encryption-method em
              Set the encryption method.  Supported  methods  are  Traditional
              (weak),  and  WinZip-compatible  AES  (strong)  with various key
              lengths: AES128, AES192, and AES256.   AES  encryption  must  be
              enabled  at  build  time, and requires a compatible Info-ZIP AES
              encryption kit.  (See INSTALL in the zip  source  kit  for  more
              information.)  An AES-capable UnZip program is needed to extract
              AES-encrypted entries.

DESCRIPTION
       zipcloak encrypts all unencrypted entries in the zipfile.  This is  the
       default action.

       The -d option is used to decrypt encrypted entries in the zipfile.

       zipcloak defaults to using original zip encryption, which is
              considered weak.  Use of AES encryption is recommended.

       Traditional (ZipCrypto) encryption notice:

              The  encryption  code  of this program is not copyrighted and is
              put in the public domain.  It was originally written  in  Europe
              and  can  be  freely  distributed from any country including the
              U.S.A.  (Previously if this program was imported into the U.S.A,
              it  could not be re-exported from the U.S.A to another country.)
              See the file README.CR included in the source  distribution  for
              more on this.  Otherwise, the Info-ZIP license applies.

       AES encryption notice (applies when AES encryption included):

              This  distribution includes cryptographic software.  The country
              in which you currently  reside  may  have  restrictions  on  the
              import, possession, use, and/or re-export to another country, of
              encryption software.   BEFORE  using  any  encryption  software,
              please  check your country's laws, regulations and policies con-
              cerning the import, possession, or use, and re-export of encryp-
              tion    software,   to   see   if   this   is   permitted.   See
              <http://www.wassenaar.org/> for more information.

              The U.S. Government Department of Commerce, Bureau  of  Industry
              and  Security (BIS), has classified this software as Export Com-
              modity Control Number (ECCN) 5D002.C.1, which includes  informa-
              tion  security  software using or performing cryptographic func-
              tions and makes it eligible for export under the License  Excep-
              tion ENC Technology Software Unrestricted (TSU) exception.

EXAMPLES
       To be added.

BUGS
       Large files (> 2 GB) and large archives not yet supported.

       Split archives not yet supported.

SEE ALSO
       zip(1), unzip(1)

AUTHOR
       Info-ZIP

Info-ZIP                    6 November 2015 (v3.1)                 ZIPCLOAK(1)
